---
layout: post
title: My Goals as a Software Developer
---

My primary drive in becoming a software developer comes from the challenges in development.

Right now, my current role as a firewall administrator involves mainly opening ports upon user requests. So if someone can't get to a webpage on HTTP, I'd open port 80 from their location to the web server. I can't see myself doing this kind of "data entry" for the next ~35 years. Will automation take over? Maybe someday, or some part of the firewall operations can become more "leaned". But not at this stage, as there must involve human decisions and even long discussion among teams if a requested connection looks suspicious. But I usually don't even make any say in such matter.

So, for someone who likes a good challenge and has a master degree, albeit not very technical, I have much higher expectation and hope that the software development path can fulfill that.

I will start off with short term goals first and then the long term goals after.

### Scripting/Automation

Having expressed my interest in software development, my manager tried to compromise by assigning a new role while keeping me in the same firewall team. The new role is to automate the monitoring jobs in the operation center, such as when servers are about hit a threshold in memory or CPU usage, or when a failing process might lead a catastrophic failure down the line. My goal in the next month or two is to figure out all the pieces together, such as what technologies we currently use, what those technologies can do, and how to make them all work together. Today, we use the IBM's Netcool and Omnibus and a lot of CA tools, like Spectrum, that polls the network devices out there. If a device or one of its interfaces is down, we'd get alert via emails and sometimes our ticketing system, ServiceNow. Eventually, we'll want to have all systems to be monitored in an automated fasion, that the highly critical events would displayed not only in ServiceNow, but a central dashboard on big screen TVs at our floor.

With what little scripting skills I have, I hope to be able to create and schedule scripts that can help to monitor the health of our servers within the next six months. Therefore, I think learning Bash/Perl scripts can be extrememly useful.

### Full-Stack Developer

A full-stack development role would be ideal to me. While I have the most interest in back-end development, I don't mind switching to front-end development from time to time. As I recalled from my internship experience, which was about seven years ago, I've had access to the ASP.NET files, CS files, and WSDL files at the same time, though I mostly just edited the webpages and fixed the cosmetics.

Depending on how my current role turns out in six months' time, I might go the contractor path or work closely with recruiters to begin my career in software development.

### Create Apps

As more people use smartphones, the higher demand of mobile development will become. After I go through the foundation courses in back-end development from Bloc, I hope to learn mobile development languages such as Xamarin or Swift in my spare time. I don't know what kind of applications I might create, but I promise it won't be another flappy bird.

### Write Good Codes and Solve Complex Issues

I read somewhere that software development can be an extremely valuable skill and also highly disciplined. Like other engineering disciplines, from automobile to nuclear engineering, a flaw in software engineering can just as well cause injuries and deaths. Can we trust a junior developer or an intern to develop the software in a Boeing airplane that is responsible for takeoff and landing, or to develop the self-driving system in a Tesla vehicle?

While I may not develop something that can put people's lives at risk, I do hope to be engaged in complex project and be able to make a positive difference in people's lives someday. 